Time-blocking is where you set appointments with yourself to accomplish your most important tasks.
As I'm sure you've heard before, you are the average of the five people you spend the most time with!
While it might be annoying, this habit is actually highly beneficial for kids trying to make sense of a big, confusing world. Somewhere in life, though, we lose this habit. We start to accept what we're told and do things because "that's just how it's done."
it is important to get out and do something that is unfamiliar and mentally challenging and that provides broad stimulation mentally
Physical activity also has positive effects on common mental illnesses like depression and anxiety
Most people don't know that even though they can choose which time to go to sleep, drowsiness can “switch off” the brain involuntarily, making much of the learning or working you do from that point onward relatively useless.
In order to regulate your circadian rhythm, expose yourself to natural light in the mornings and afternoons by keeping windows open or even working outside -- just a brief outdoor walk during your lunch break will work as well.
Laughter and other forms of positive affect, like watching a short comedy film or receiving a meaningful gift, may improve your ability to think creatively and look at problems from a new, out-of-the-box perspective.
If you really want to achieve your goals, then you must make the commitment to be disciplined. It’s that simple. Being disciplined isn’t something you have -- it is something you do. Discipline every habit you have. Be disciplined with your physical health and nutrition, put responsibilities before leisure, control your reactive emotions, watch what you say and keep a positive mindset.
Review your goals each morning before you start your day, or set and review your goals for the next day before you go to sleep. Make sure to pick a quiet time and / or place where you can focus and visualize on what you want to achieve in the short and long term. This will help you to set the most important goals on your list for the next day. As you visualize, see yourself achieving your goals and imagine the feelings of success which will come along with this. In this way you start your day in a productive and positive mindset.
As you plan your day discipline yourself to accomplish the tasks which require the most effort and discipline from you. Get your big stressors out of the way. When you accomplish your more stressful tasks first, not only will you begin to do this with more consistency, but you will be less stressed throughout the rest of your day, allowing you to be more productive on your other, less important activities. In this way, you learn to turn a mess to greatness.
A great way to cultivate the habit of being disciplined is to focus on doing the little things you know you should do such as making your bed before you leave the house, keeping your environment clean, keep your car clean, take the garbage out and pick up after yourself. As you discipline yourself to do the little things, you will become more disciplined in doing the bigger, more important things.
Make decisions ahead of time. If you decide to exercise each morning before work, then do not allow yourself to talk yourself out of it, no matter who much you want to. If you are going to take on an important project in the morning don’t second-guess your decision in the morning. The decision is made -- so follow through with it.
Without follow through you have no discipline. Your mind is often your greatest enemy when it comes to following through, it will try and talk you into laziness and doing things later. You must win this battle and keep up on all that you have planned to do.
When you accomplish the things which require your discipline, your success will be what rewards your effort. When you see the success you have created exploding right in front of your eyes, reward yourself when you are done. Be happy and proud of yourself. Share with your loved ones what you have achieved and take everyone out to dinner and drinks with you to celebrate your hard work and subsequent achievements.
Backpack solo to a country in another corner of the world. Getting lost is how you'll find yourself.
Keep a pet. That's how you'll become responsible.
Pick up a bad habit & drop it. That is how you learn.
Kiss a stranger. Some words are felt, not spoken.
Play a sport with all your heart. Nothing compares to the thrill of a well-earned victory or a hard-fought loss.
Take up a job that involves manual labour. It will teach you about hardships.
Volunteer in an NGO. It will teach you so much more.
Learn a different language. Maybe French or Spanish or how about sign language? To some, actions speak louder than words.
Start or at least try to start your own business. That's how you will taste success or failure.
Take some time off doing nothing. A little rest never hurts.
Learn to play at least one musical instrument. Music speaks where words fail.
Scuba dive, swim underwater, sky dive, paraglide or ski if you want to, but do something extreme. That's how you shut the world out.
Retire to a village for sometime. It's simpler to get a simple life there.
Love. It is the only thing where falling is a good thing.
Write about all that you've done. Memories are the only thing that you will remember & take with you.
Life is short. Break the rules, forgive quickly, kiss slowly, love truly, laugh uncontrollably, and never regret anything that made you smile.

Control your own destiny or someone else will.
What we achieve inwardly will change outer reality.
Believe you can and you’re halfway there.
Nothing will work unless you do.
We can easily forgive a child who is afraid of the dark; the real tragedy of life is when men are afraid of the light.
Everything you’ve ever wanted is on the other side of fear.
The only person you are destined to become is the person you decide to be.
When I was 5 years old, my mother always told me that happiness was the key to life. When I went to school, they asked me what I wanted to be when I grew up. I wrote down ‘happy.’ They told me I didn’t understand the assignment, and I told them they didn’t understand life.
When one door of happiness closes, another opens, but often we look so long at the closed door that we do not see the one that has been opened for us.
I have been impressed with the urgency of doing. Knowing is not enough; we must apply. Being willing is not enough; we must do.
What’s money? A man is a success if he gets up in the morning and goes to bed at night and in between does what he wants to do.
A person who never made a mistake never tried anything new.
Remember that not getting what you want is sometimes a wonderful stroke of luck.
Build your own dreams, or someone else will hire you to build theirs.
If you hear a voice within you say, ‘You cannot paint,’ then by all means paint and that voice will be silenced.
The question isn’t who is going to let me; it’s who is going to stop me.
Don’t judge each day by the harvest you reap but by the seeds that you plant.
It is during our darkest moments that we must focus to see the light.
The most difficult thing is the decision to act, the rest is merely tenacity.
The most common way people give up their power is by thinking they don’t have any.
When everything seems to be going against you, remember that the airplane takes off against the wind, not with it.
I am not a product of my circumstances. I am a product of my decisions.
Strive not to be a success, but rather to be of value.
I’ve missed more than 9000 shots in my career. I’ve lost almost 300 games. Twenty-six times I’ve been trusted to take the game winning shot and missed. I’ve failed over and over and over again in my life. And that is why I succeed.
Twenty years from now you will be more disappointed by the things that you didn’t do than by the ones you did do, so throw off the bowlines, sail away from safe harbor, catch the trade winds in your sails. Explore. Dream. Discover.
Whatever the mind of man can conceive and believe, it can achieve.
Do or do not. There is no try.
Too many of us are not living our dreams because we are living our fears.
To handle yourself, use your head; to handle others, use your heart.
Nothing is impossible, the word itself says ‘I’m possible’!
I can’t change the direction of the wind, but I can adjust my sails to always reach my destination.
Remember no one can make you feel inferior without your consent.
If you look at what you have in life, you’ll always have more. If you look at what you don’t have in life, you’ll never have enough.
Life is 10 percent what happens to me and 90 percent of how I react to it.
Perfection is not attainable, but if we chase perfection we can catch excellence.
Whether you think you can or you think you can’t, you’re right.
I’ve learned that people will forget what you said, people will forget what you did, but people will never forget how you made them feel.
I alone cannot change the world, but I can cast a stone across the water to create many ripples.

the secret to waking up early is not allowing your brain to make decisions. In other words, create morning routines and habits that force you to wake up! Then, get to work!
Defining goals and setting benchmarks is an easy habit to acquire